"Christ died"-that is history; "Christ died for our sins"-that is doctrine.
"If God be for us, who can be against us?" means... "that if we possess God, then we can meet with equanimity the loss of all besides."
"Liberalism" is regarded as "liberal" only by its friends; to its opponents it seems to involve a narrow ignoring of many relevant facts.
"Suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, dead and buried"-that is history. "He loved me and gave Himself for me"-that is doctrine.
[Christianity] bases upon the Bible both its thinking and its life. Liberalism... is founded upon the shifting emotions of sinful men.
[Christianity] transformed the lives of men not by appealing to the human will, but by telling a story...
[During WWI] I hate war, I am tired of the whole business.
[Faith] involves an apprehension of certain things as facts; and vain is the modern effort to divorce faith from knowledge.
[Historic Christianity] provides for the individual a refuge from all the fluctuating currents of human opinion.
[Jesus] was conscious of standing at the turning-point of the ages, when what had never been was now to come to be.
A Christianity that avoids argument is not the Christianity of the New Testament.
A Christianity tolerant of other religions is just no Christianity at all.
A deadly vagueness gradually affects the church's witness.
A low view of law brings legalism into religion; a high view of law makes man a seeker after grace. Pray that the high view may prevail.
A new and more powerful proclamation of the law is perhaps the most pressing need of the hour...
Ah, people are so patronizing in the presence of Jesus today. They say such kind, polite things about him.
All men, according to Paul, are dead in sin. Salvation, then, can come only by a new creation.
Although Christianity does not end with a broken heart, it does begin with the broken heart.
Although faith is intellectual, it is not only intellectual.
And in His presence we live.
Are we forever condemned to live the sordid life of utilitarianism?
Are you weary and heavy laden? Will you come to him that he may give you rest?
But if anything has been done to save me, will you not tell me the facts?
Calvinism alone does justice to the unity of the world, as it certainly alone does justice to the teaching of the Bible.
Christ made the beauty of the world, and he made men that they might enjoy that beauty and celebrate it unto his praise.
Christ will do everything or nothing, and the only hope is to throw ourselves unreservedly on his mercy and trust him for all.
Christ will do everything or nothing, and the only hope is to throw ourselves unreservedly on His mercy and trust Him for all.
Christian doctrine lies at the very roots of faith.
Christian experience is rightly used when it helps to convince us that the events narrated in the New Testament actually did occur.
Christian laypeople must be encouraged to be leaders in their fields, rather than eager-to-please followers...
Christianity cannot subsist unless men know what Christianity is.
Christianity is a religion of the attainment of sonship by the redeeming work of Christ.
Christianity is the religion of the broken heart.
Christianity must pervade not merely all nations, but also all of human thought.
Christians are called to God's service not only in church professions but also in every secular calling.
Dark and gloomy  would  be  the world,  if  we  were  left  to  our  own devices and had  no blessed  Word of  God.
Do you suppose that I do regret my being called by a term that I greatly dislike, a "Fundamentalist"? Most certainly I do.
Emancipation from the blessed will of God always involves bondage to some worse taskmaster.
Etymology has spoiled many a good sermon.
Every true man is resentful of slanders against a human friend. Should we not be grieved ten times more by slanders against our God?
Everywhere Jesus thinks of himself as being Son of God in some entirely unique sense.
Faith is essentially dogmatic. Despite all you can do, you cannot remove the element of intellectual assent from it.
Faith is often diversified by doubt, but a man should not desert the conviction of his better moments because the dark moments come.
Faith means not doing something but receiving something; it means not the earning of a reward but the acceptance of a gift.
False ideas are the greatest obstacles to the reception of the gospel.
Few things are more necessary for a correct understanding of the New Testament than a precise acquaintance with the common prepositions.
For Christians to influence the world with the truth of God's Word requires the recovery of the great Reformation doctrine of vocation.
From [my parents] I learned what Christianity is and how it differs from certain modern substitutes.
From the beginning, Christianity was certainly a way of life; the salvation that it offered was a salvation from sin...
George Marsden on Machen: He had a personality that only his good friends found appealing.
God has always saved the church, not by theological pacifists but by sturdy contenders for the truth.
God has condescended to touch our hearts...by the wonderful variety and beauty of his Book.
God, according to Jesus is a loving Father, not of the sinful world, but of those whom He Himself had brought into His Kingdom.
Have you any good news? That is the question that I ask of you.
He created time when he created finite creatures. He himself is beyond time. There is no past and no future to him.
He who denies hell shouldn't think "he has the slightest understanding of what Jesus came into the world to say and do."
How can we possibly listen with polite complacency when men break down the distinction between God and man, & drag God down to man's level?
Human affection, apparently so simple, is really just bristling with dogma.
I am just about as strongly opposed to the reading of the Bible in state-controlled schools as any atheist could be.
I have come to the conclusion that the two institutions which Germany most needs are (1) The Sabbath; and (2) American Football.
I have worn one uniform ever since leaving Paris and it is now all spotted up with hot chocolate.
I suppose it never occurred to [my father] to read merely from a sense of duty; he read because he loved to read.
I think we might do far worse than revive the good old word orthodoxy as a designation of our position.
If all creeds are equally true, then since they are contradictory to one another, they are all equally false.
If God be for us, who can be against us?" - that does not mean that faith in God will bring us everything that we desire.
If I were going to get married I should certainly choose some other time than Saturday afternoon in the middle of football season.
If Jesus be merely an example, He is not a worthy example; for He claimed to be far more.
If we value God for His own sake, the loss of other things will draw us all the closer to Him.
If we value God for His own sake, then the loss of other things will draw us all the closer to Him.
In modern parlance, with its boundless degradation of formerly lofty terms, there is no solid footing; but it is not so in the Bible.
In the Christian religion, we find a liberty that is far deeper than the civil and religious liberty of which we have spoken...
In the gospel, there is included all that the heart of man can wish.
In the ministry of evangelical churches are to be found hosts of those who reject the gospel of Christ.
In the presence of a great common foe, I have little time to be attacking my brethren who stand with me in defense of the Word of God.
Indifferentism about doctrine makes no heroes of the faith.
Isn't the Reformed faith grand?
It is not schism to break away from an apostate church.
It is usually considered good practice to examine a thing for one's self before echoing the vulgar ridicule of it.
It was a point of grammatical concord that was at the bottom of the civil War - "United States are," said one, "United States is," said another.
It's through the little sins that Satan gains an entrance into our lives.
I'm so thankful for the active obedience of Christ. No hope without it.
Jesus is indeed mysterious. Who can fathom the mystery of His Person? But the mystery is a mystery in which a man can rest.
Jesus refuses to be pressed into the mold of a mere religious teacher.
Jesus was certainly not a mere enunciator of permanent truths... he was conscious of standing at the turning-point of the ages...
Liberalism is totally different from Christianity, for the foundation is different.
Light may seen at times to be an impertinent intruder, but it is always beneficial in the end.
Machen to Van Til "I wish I could take your course on Evidences. I need it and am sure it will benefit the Seminary"
Many men make shipwreck of their faith by valuing God only for the things that He can give.
Marburg is lovely, but it can't compare with Heidelberg.
Minnie Machen: "I am proud of all my sons, but of this one especially as a defender of the faith."
Modernism is passionately anti-intellectual, whereas Christianity possesses a reasonable faith.
Modernism, so far as it is religious at all, is mysticism, whereas Christianity is the worship of one whom one knows.
My idea of delight is a Princeton room full of fellows smoking.
No, my friends, though Princeton Seminary is dead, the noble tradition of Princeton Seminary is alive [at @WestminsterTS in 1929].
One before whom we could stand in our own merit without fear?  He who will may be satisfied with such a God.
Our Lord came not to teach men that they were already sons of God, but to make them sons of God by his redeeming work.
Our Lord has died for us, and surely we must not deny Him for favor of men.
Our only hope is to throw ourselves unreservedly on God's mercy and trust him for all.
Paganism is optimistic with regard to unaided human nature, whereas Christianity is the religion of the broken heart.
Persons who hold the same view of sin and retribution that Jesus held, to such persons alone, the beauty of Jesus is without flaw.
Rejoice says the modern preacher but sadness does not seem to flee. Rejoice says the psalmist & the Lord put gladness in his heart.
RT @PatAbendroth: Machen on where he learned the Bible: "I got it on Sunday afternoons with my mother at home" (What is Faith?)
Selfishness makes us unwilling to give aid; pride makes us unwilling to receive it.
Show me a professing Christian of whom all men speak well, and I'll show you a man who is probably unfaithful to his Lord.
Stay the course.
Thank God, the Bible is right, my friends.
That just and holy God is also God of an infinite love; He sent His eternal Son to die for you.
The astonishing thing to me is the prodigious amount of ammunition that it takes to kill one man.
The Bible is not afraid of speaking of God in a startlingly tender and human sort of way.
The Bible, to the Christian, is not a burdensome law, but the very Magna Carta of Christian liberty.
The cardinal principle of unbelief is that miracles have never happened.
The chief modern rival of Christianity is "liberalism."
The Christian is restrained from doing certain things in order that he may do other things that are infinitely more worth while.
The church is perishing today through lack of thinking, not through an excess of it.
The Church is perishing today through the lack of thinking, not through an excess of it.
The church must seek to conquer not merely every man for Christ, but also the whole of man.
The Church of Rome may represent a perversion of the Christian religion; but naturalistic liberalism is not Christianity at all.
The early Christians... lived a strange new kind of life-a life of honesty, of purity and of unselfishness.
The glory of the atonement is not that there's a change in us, rather it's that there's a change in the way God deals with us.
The God of modern preaching, though He may perhaps be very good, is rather uninteresting.
The Gospel does not abrogate God's law, but it makes men love it with all of their hearts.
The greater our progress in theology, the simpler and more child-like will be our faith.
The more we know God the more we'll trust Him-the greater our progress in theology the more childlike will be our faith
The more we know of God, the more unreservedly we will trust Him.
The narration of the facts is history; the narration of the facts with the meaning of the facts is doctrine.
The New Testament without the miracles would be far easier to believe. But the trouble is, would it be worth believing?"
The object of a truly religious faith is none other than God.
The philosophers despise children who think of God as their heavenly Father. But the philosophers are wrong and the children are right.
The prophets said, 'Thus saith the Lord,' but Jesus said, 'I say.' He claimed the right to legislate for the Kingdom of God.
The really important things are the things about which men will fight.
The strongest Christianity, I think, is consistent Christianity; and consistent Christianity is found in the Reformed faith.
The student of the New Testament should be primarily an historian.
The task of restoring truth to the culture depends largely on our laypeople.
The things about which men are agreed are apt to be the things that are least worth holding.
The truth is that the Bible's picture of Jesus possesses a wonderful unity.
The very center and core of the whole Bible is the doctrine of the grace of God...
The very existence of the Christian church is a mighty testimony to the resurrection of our Lord.
The war is a horrid, unnatural kind of thing even in its least horrible aspects.
The whole of life, including business and all of social relations, must be obedient to the law of love.
The work which has been intrusted to Christ is nothing less than that of reconciling the creation unto God.
The world is lying in misery, we ourselves are sinners, men are perishing in sin every day. The gospel is the sole means of escape.
There can be no greater mistake than to suppose that Jesus ever separated theology from ethics.
This world's problems can never be solved by those who make this world the object of their desires.
Thus Dr. Scofield's view of the Mosaic Law is rooted in a wrong view of sin.
To bring back truth, on a practical level, the church must encourage Christians to be not merely consumers of culture but makers of culture.
To have faith in Christ means to cease trying to win God's favor by one's own character.
To say, therefore, that our faith saves us means that we do not save ourselves even in slightest measure, but that God saves us.
Tolerance, to me, does not mean merely tolerance for what I hold to be good, but also tolerance for what I hold to be abominably bad.
Van Til is excellent material from which a professor might ultimately be made.
Vastly more important than all questions with regard to methods of preaching is the root question as to what it is that shall be preached.
We value God solely for the things that he can do and make him a mere means to an ulterior end. And God refuses to be treated so.
What I need first of all is not exhortation, but a gospel, not directions for saving myself but knowledge of how God has saved me.
What is today a matter of academic speculation begins tomorrow to move armies and pull down empires
What is today a matter of academic speculation begins tomorrow to move armies and pull down empires.
What people need is the gospel, not directions for saving themselves but knowledge of how God has saved them.
What the Apostle is concerned to deny is any intrusion of human merit into the work by which salvation is obtained.
When I think what an aid tobacco is to friendship and Christian patience, I have sometimes regretted that I never began to smoke.
Where the most eloquent exhortation fails, the simple story of an event succeeds; the lives of men are transformed by a piece of news.
Whether we like it or not, churches are founded upon a creed; they are organized for the propagation of a message.
While we are discussing the exact location of the churches of Galatia, men are perishing under the curse of the law.
While we are settling the date of Jesus' birth, the world is doing without its Christmas message.
Without the consciousness of sin, the whole of the gospel will seem to be an idle tale.
You cannot have faith without having knowledge; but you will not have faith if you have only knowledge.
It is impossible to think with an empty mind.
The type of religion which rejoices in the pious sound of traditional phrases, regardless of their meanings, or shrinks from "controversial" matters, will never stand amid the shocks of life.
But, it will be said, Christianity is a life, not a doctrine. The assertion is often made, and it has an appearance of godliness. But it is radically false, and to detect its falsity one does not even need to be a Christian.
It never occurred to Paul that a gospel might be true for one man and not for another; the blight of pragmatism had never fallen upon his soul.
The modern liberal desires to produce upon the minds of simple Christians (and upon his own mind) the impression of some sort of continuity between modern liberalism and the thought and life of the great Apostle. But such an impression is altogether misleading.
But one attribute of God is absolutely fundamental in the Bible; one attribute is absolutely necessary in order to render intelligible all the rest. That attribute is the awful transcendence of God.
According to the Bible, man is a sinner under the just condemnation of God; according to modern liberalism, there is really no such thing as sin.
It is quite useless for the preacher to breathe out fire and brimstone from the pulpit, if at the same time the occupants of the pews go on taking sin very lightly and being content with the more' standards of the world.
Here the vicarious death is put as the "life-purpose" of Jesus. Such an utterance must of course be pushed aside by the modern liberal Church.
Christianity is founded upon the Bible. It bases upon the Bible both its thinking and its life. Liberalism on the other hand is founded upon the shifting emotions of sinful men.
Liberalism regards Him as an Example and Guide; Christianity, as a Savior: liberalism makes Him an example for faith; Christianity, the object of faith.
According to the Christian conception, a miracle is wrought by the immediate power of God. It is not wrought by an arbitrary and fantastic despot, but by the very God to whom the regularity of nature itself is due--by the God, moreover, whose character is known through the Bible.
The modern liberals, on the other hand, say that Jesus is God not because they think high of Jesus, but because they think desperately low of God.
In order to maintain themselves in the evangelical churches and quiet the fears of their conservative associates, the liberals resort constantly to a double use of language.
we know absolutely nothing about an atonement that is not a vicarious atonement, for that is the only atonement of which the New Testament speaks.
All sin at bottom is a sin against God. "Against thee, thee only have I sinned" is the cry of a true penitent. How terrible is the sin against God!
The New Testament clearly speaks of the wrath of God and the wrath of Jesus Himself; and all the teaching of Jesus presupposes a divine indignation against sin.
A cardinal doctrine of modern liberalism is that the world's evil may be overcome by the world's good; no help is thought to be needed from outside the world.
Some Christians, indeed, are really able to give day and hour of their conversion. It is a grievous sin to ridicule the experience of such men.
According to Christian belief, man exists for the sake of God; according to the liberal Church, in practice if not in theory, God exists for the sake of man.
A man cannot possibly be an "evangelical" or a "conservative" (or, as he himself would say, simply a Christian) and regard the Cross of Christ as a trifle.
The Unitarian Church is frankly and honestly just the kind of church that the liberal preacher desires--namely, a church without an authoritative Bible, without doctrinal requirements, and without a creed.
God send us ministers who, instead of merely avoiding denial of the Cross shall be on fire with the Cross, whose whole life shall be one burning sacrifice of gratitude to the blessed Savior who loved them and gave Himself for them!
How can we possibly listen with polite complacency, then, when men break down the distinction between God and man, and drag God down to man’s level?
Do you know the risen Christ today as your Savior and your Lord? If you do not yet know him, will you not bow before him at this hour and say, “My Lord and my God!”
Plainly Jesus puts his own sayings here on a level with the Old Testament pronouncements which he certainly regarded as the very Word of God.
